% Cloudfour.com THE SEQUEL: A Tutorial for possible Technical Bliss?

# Cloudfour.com: THE SEQUEL

## Introduction: What are we doing here?

The first thing I'm going to ask you to do is install some stuff. Cart before horse is the way I'm going here. It will be explained as we go!

## Pre-requisites: Clicking buttons and typing commands

There are several items you'll need to get set up to get through the tutorial. Most of you already have git (except AJ, I think). Aside from configuring git, I think these steps should tak about 10 minutes if you blast right through them. git install and configuration probably doubles that, but it's:

1. Really not that bad,
2. well documented,
3. useful

### Install and configure git

It is likely that this section pertains to AJ only. I think the rest of us have *some* flavor of git on our machines.

1. Go to [Github](https://github.com/signup/free "Free account signup") and create an account if you do not already have one. You're aiming for the free, open-source version. This link should do it for yah.
2. Github hosts git repositories. That is where the `origin` remote of this repository (you don't actually *have* this repository yet; panic not) is and the `origin` remote of your forked version of this repository will be. If that terminology seems baffling, try to ignore it; I'm being pedantically correct. *Github hosts the repositories* is a simpler, if not quite as accurate, statement.
    So you have a GitHub account, but now you need to configure `git`—the version control system—itself on your Mac.
3. Start on the [GitHub "Set Up Git" page](http://help.github.com/mac-set-up-git/), "Set up Git"). Do not be dismayed by the length of the page, nor that it has a lot to say about SSH keys. SSH keys are confusing and annoying (well, IMHO), but the instructions here are actually spot on and easy to follow.
4. Again, there are several steps here. But their documentation is good. This is the most involved step you'll have to deal with in this tutorial. Come get me if you get stuck.

### Install SASS (SCSS)

1. Open Terminal window
2. Type: `gem install sass`
3. That should be it. If you have a permissions error, try `sudo gem install sass`. If for some reason this fails, come get me.

(Aside: SASS is a ruby gem. If you have any kind of recent OS X, you already have ruby. Curious? Try `which ruby` in a Terminal window. Assuming you get some sort of answer, you can also try `ruby --version`. I have

`ruby 1.8.7 (2010-01-10 patchlevel 249) [universal-darwin11.0]`

which came with Lion by default).

### Install Pandoc

1. Go to the [Pandoc download page](http://code.google.com/p/pandoc/downloads/list "Pandoc downloads")
2. Find the link to download the `dmg` for OS X. It's currently the first link.
3. Download it and install just like any other application. Should take you, like, one minute.

### Get the GitHub GUI client

GitHub has the nicest GUI client for any version control system that I have ever seen in my entire life. I'm not exaggerating. [Go download it](http://mac.github.com/ "GitHub for Mac"). It takes barely any time to download and install. And it's pretty cute.

### Fork the repository

You'll want your own version of the repository in which this file normally resides. You probably received this file in another way (e.g. email) to get you started. But the rest of the tutorial is in a git repository.

1. Go to the [PandocSCSSTutorial home page on GitHub](https://github.com/lyzadanger/PandocSCSSTutorial).
1. Find and click the "Fork" button.
1. You will see some Hardcore Forking Action.
1. If you are using the GUI, find the "Clone in Mac" button on the resulting page. Click it. Follow the instructions to add the repository to your GitHub client. It will prompt you for a location to save the folder containing the repository. ALL GOOD.
1. If you use the command line, I bet you can figure out how to clone the resulting git repo to your local machine.
1. Go find the `tutorial/` directory and view it in a web browser. You should see this page (spooky) *and* you'll be able to get to the rest of the pages of the tutorial!

## Onward!

Well done, Schmotchkiss. It's time to talk about what we're up to, anyway. Aren't you curious? Let's chat [philosophy and purpose](philosophy.html), shall we?